
## In Tests We Trust — TDD with Python

* Unit tests are some pieces of code to exercise the input, the output and the behaviour of your code. You can write them anytime you want.

But Test-Driven Development is a strategy to think (and write!) tests first

* Unit tests and TDD :Test-Driven Development is a strategy to think (and write!) tests first.

### Baby Steps:

* The structure:

 1- Arrange: you need to organize the data needed to execute that piece of code (input);

  2- Act: here you will execute the code being tested (exercise the behaviour);

   3- Assert: after executing the code, you will check if the result (output) is the same as you were expecting.

### The Cycle

 1- Write a unit test and make it fail

 2- Write the feature and make the test pass

 3- Refactor the code — the first version doesn’t need to be the beautiful one (don’t be shy)
##  if __name__ == “__main__” 

* If the python interpreter is running that module (the source file) as the main program, it sets the special __name__ variable to have a value “__main__”. If this file is being imported from another module, __name__ will be set to the module’s name. Module’s name is available as value to __name__ 
global variable. 

### Advantages : 

1- Every Python module has it’s __name__ defined and if this is ‘__main__’, it implies that the module is being run standalone

2- If you import this script as a module in another script, the __name__ is set to the name of the script/module

3- Python files can act as either reusable modules, or as standalone programs.

4- if __name__ == “main”: is used to execute some code only if the file was run directly, and not imported.

## What is Recursion? 

* The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion and the corresponding function is called a recursive function. Using a recursive algorithm, certain problems can be solved quite easily.

* Recursion is an amazing technique with the help of which we can reduce the length of our code and make it easier to read and write.

### Properties of Recursion:

 * Performing the same operations multiple times with different inputs.

 * In every step, we try smaller inputs to make the problem smaller.

* Base condition is needed to stop the recursion otherwise infinite loop will occur.


## Python Lists:

* Some of the list methods:
 1 - append() : Adds an element at the end of the list
 2 - copy() : Returns a copy of the list

 3 - count() : Returns the number of elements with the specified value

 4 - clear() : Removes all the elements from the list

 5 - extend() : Add the elements of a list (or any iterable), to the end of the current list

 6- list.insert(index, elem) -- inserts the element at the given index


## Python Modules and Packages: An Introduction

* Modules refers to the act of Modular programming which is breaking a large, un wiedly programming task into a seperate, smaller, more manageable subtasks.

### There are several advantages to modularizing code in a large application

 * Simplicity

 * Maintainability
* Reusability

* Scoping

## pytest : The pytest framework makes it easy to write small, readable tests, and can scale to support complex functional testing for applications and libraries.

### Features

* Detailed info on failing assert statements

* Auto-discovery of test modules and functions

* Modular fixtures for managing small or parametrized long-lived test resources

* Can run unittest (including trial) and nose test suites out of the box
