#  Django Custom User

* However, for a real-world project, the official Django documentation highly recommends using a custom user model instead. This provides far more flexibility down the line so, as a general rule, always use a custom user model for all new Django projects.

But how to implement one? The official documentation example is not actually what many Django experts recommend using. There is a far easier yet still powerful approach to starting off new Django projects with a custom user model which I'll demonstrate here.

### Setup
To start, create a new Django project from the command line. We need to do several things:

* create and navigate into a dedicated directory called accounts for our code
* install Django
* make a new Django project called django_project
* make a new app accounts
* start the local web server

### AbstractUser vs AbstractBaseUser

* here are two modern ways to create a custom user model in Django: AbstractUser and AbstractBaseUser. In both cases we can subclass them to extend existing functionality however AbstractBaseUser requires much, much more work. Seriously, don't mess with it unless you really know what you're doing. 

### Custom User Model
* Creating our initial custom user model requires four steps:

1- update django_project/settings.py
2- create a new CustomUser model
3- create new UserCreation and UserChangeForm
4- update the admin

### Superuser

It's helpful to create a superuser that we can use to log in to the admin and test out log in/log out. On the command line type the following command and go through the prompts.

(.venv) > python manage.py createsuperuser

### Templates/Views/URLs
Our goal is a homepage with links to log in, log out, and sign up. Start by updating settings.py to use a project-level templates directory.

### Then set the redirect links for log in and log out, which will both go to our home template. Add these two lines at the bottom of the file.

#django_project/settings.py
LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL = "home"
LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL = "home"

### Create a urls.py file in the accounts app

# accounts/urls.py
from django.urls import path

from .views import SignUpView

urlpatterns = [
    path("signup/", SignUpView.as_view(), name="signup"),
]
### Last step is views.py file in the accounts app which will contain signup form

# accounts/views.py
from django.urls import reverse_lazy
from django.views.generic.edit import CreateView

from .forms import CustomUserCreationForm

class SignUpView(CreateView):
    form_class = CustomUserCreationForm
    success_url = reverse_lazy("login")
    template_name = "registration/signup.html"

    