# OOP Part02

## What are Design Patterns

* A design pattern is only a description or template for how to solve a problem! that can be used in many different situations. So every design pattern provide a solution to commonly occurring software design problems. Patterns are formalized best practices that the Software Developer can use to solve common problems when designing an application.


## difference between, Programming Paradigms, Architectural Patterns, Design Patterns and Design Principles:

* Programming Paradigms: A way to classify programming languages based on their coding styles and features

* Architectural Patterns: Reusable solution to a commonly occurring problem in software architecture within a given context.

* Design Patterns: Reusable solution to a commonly occurring problem in software design within a given context. It is a description or template for how to solve a problem that can be used in many different situations (Bridge, Builder, Strategy…).

* Design Principles: Represent a set of guidelines that help developers to avoid having a bad design. Writing code according to proven principles helps achieving code maintainability and simplicity(KISS, Liskov Substitution, Inversion of Control…).

## There is 3 major types of design patterns:

* Creational Patterns:
   1- Factory Method
   2- Singleton
   3- Abstract Factory

* Structural Patterns:
   1- Facade.   
   2- Adapter.
   3- Decorator

* Behavioral Patterns:
   1- Observer    
   2- Mediator
   3- Chain of Responsibility


## Risk Analysis
* The probability of any unwanted incident is defined as Risk. In Software Testing, risk analysis is the process of identifying the risks in applications or software that you built and prioritizing them to test. After that, the process of assigning the level of risk is done. The categorization of the risks takes place, hence, the impact of the risk is calculated.    
## Why use Risk Analysis?

In any software, using risk analysis at the beginning of a project highlights the potential problem areas. After knowing about the risk areas, it helps the developers and managers to mitigate the risks. When a test plan has been created, risks involved in testing the product are to be taken into consideration along with the possibility of the damage they may cause to your software along with solutions.

##  what could be the possible risks that you could encounter?

* Use of new hardware
* Use of new technology
* Use of new automation tool
* The sequence of code
* Availability of test resources for the application

## you have to tackle the situation with care. Following points can be taken care of:

* Conduct Risk Assessment review meeting

* Use maximum resources to work on high-risk areas

* Create a Risk Assessment database for future use

* Identify and notice the risk magnitude indicators: high, medium, low.

## Risk Identification

There are different sets of risks included in the risk identification process. Those are as follows:

1- Business Risks
2- Testing Risks
3- Premature Release Risk:
4- Software Risks:

## The perspective of Risk Assessment
There are three perspectives of Risk Assessment:

* Effect: To assess risk by Effect. In case you identify a condition, event or action and try to determine its impact.

* Cause: To assess risk by Cause is opposite of by Effect. Initialize scanning the problem and reach to the point that could be the most probable reason behind that.

* Likelihood :  To assess risk by Likelihood is to say that there is a probability that a requirement won’t be satisfied.

## Dependency Injection:

#### types of dependency injection:

* constructor injection: the dependencies are provided through a class constructor.
* setter injection: the client exposes a setter method that the injector uses to inject the dependency.
* interface injection: the dependency provides an injector method that will inject the dependency into any client passed to it. Clients must implement an interface that exposes a setter method that accepts the dependency

###  responsibility of dependency injection’s : 

* Create the objects
* Know which classes require those objects
* And provide them all those objects

### Benefits of using DI

* Helps in Unit testing.
* Boiler plate code is reduced, as initializing of dependencies is done by the injector component.
* Extending the application becomes easier.
* Helps to enable loose coupling, which is important in application programming.

### Disadvantages of DI:
 * It’s a bit complex to learn, and if overused can lead to management issues and other problems.
* Many compile time errors are pushed to run-time.
* Dependency injection frameworks are implemented with reflection or dynamic programming. This can hinder use of IDE automation, such as “find references”, “show call hierarchy” and safe refactoring.