# Next- Forms and Conditional Rendering

## Hooks are a new addition in React 16.8. They let you use state and other React features without writing a class
* A custom Hook is a JavaScript function whose name starts with ”use” and that may call other Hooks. For example, useFriendStatus below is our first custom Hook

* import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';

function useFriendStatus(friendID) {
  const [isOnline, setIsOnline] = useState(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    function handleStatusChange(status) {
      setIsOnline(status.isOnline);
    }

    ChatAPI.subscribeToFriendStatus(friendID, handleStatusChange);
    return () => {
      ChatAPI.unsubscribeFromFriendStatus(friendID, handleStatusChange);
    };
  });

  return isOnline;
}


### useYourImagination()

* Custom Hooks offer the flexibility of sharing logic that wasn’t possible in React components before. You can write custom Hooks that cover a wide range of use cases like form handling, animation, declarative subscriptions, timers, and probably many more we haven’t considered. What’s more, you can build Hooks that are just as easy to use as React’s built-in features.

## MEMOIZATION IN REACT JS

### WHAT IS MEMOIZATION?

* here are some times when re-rendering of the component results in performance issues. To overcome this, React provides us with a performance feature known as memoization.

Memoization is an optimization technique that allows an increase in the performance of a program by storing the results of some expensive function so that we don’t need to call that function when the same inputs are given.

### HOW TO IMPLEMENT MEMOIZATION IN REACT

*React also gives us a memo() hook to apply memoization for functional components.
If we need a function component that gives the same result for the same props and we don’t want to re-render it, we can use memoization to skip the re-render of the component by storing and reusing the last rendered result.

### WHEN TO USE MEMOIZATION

* Memoization can increase performance for some functions. But, if we use it for every component rendering, it might decrease performance since it stores results that increase memory used for the program. We should only use memoization when there is a clear benefit for doing so