# Django REST Framework & Docker

Docker is a platform designed to help developers build, share, and run modern applications. We handle the tedious setup, so you can focus on the code. -Docker can be shared among team members so everyone is working on the same setup.

## Linux Containers

* Docker is really just Linux containers which are a type of virtualization.

Virtualization has its roots at the beginning of computer science when large, expensive mainframe computers were the norm. How could multiple programmers use the same single machine? The answer was virtualization and specifically virtual machines which are complete copies of a computer system from the operating system on up.

### Containers vs Virtual Environments

* Virtual environments are used to isolate Python software packages locally. We can create an isolated box for individual projects so one can use Python 2.7 and Django 1.5 while another can use Python 3.5 and Django 2.1 on the same computer. Virtual environments are great.

* virtual environments can only isolate Python packages. They still rely on a global, system-level installation of Python albeit they can refer to the proper version. So when we use Python 2.7 in a project, we’re pointing to an installation of Python 2.7 on the computer itself, not actually within the virtual environment.

## Images and Containers

* Images and containers are the two fundamental concepts to grasp when you start with Docker. An image is a snapshot in time of what a project contains. A container is a running instance of the image.

#### A baking analogy we can use here is as follows:

* A Dockerfile is the recipe for a cake
* An image is a snapshot of the recipe at a given time
* A docker-compose.yml says how to make the cake
* And the container is the actual, baked cake

## Django for APIs

* Django REST Framework works alongside the Django web framework to create web APIs. We cannot build a web API with only Django Rest Framework. It always must be added to a project after Django itself has been installed and configured.
 
### traditional Django

* A traditional Django website consists of a single project with multiple apps representing discrete functionality.

### Django REST Framework

* Web API will expose a single endpoint that lists out all books in JSON. To do this, it will need a new URL route, a new view, and a new serializer file.
* Django REST Framework views are similar except the end result is serialized 
* data in JSON format, not the content for a web page! Django REST Framework views rely on a model, a URL, and a new file called a serializer
