# Hashtabels

### What is a Hashtable?

1- Hash - A hash is the result of some algorithm taking an incoming string and converting it into a value that could be used for either security or some other purpose. In the case of a hashtable, it is used to determine the index of the array.
2- Buckets - A bucket is what is contained in each index of the array of the hashtable. Each index is a bucket. An index could potentially contain multiple key/value pairs if a collision occurs.

## Why do we use them?
1- Hold unique values
2- Dictionary
3- Library

## What Are they?

* Hashtables are a data structure that utilize key value pairs. This means every Node or Bucket has both a key, and a value.

The basic idea of a hashtable is the ability to store the key into this data structure, and quickly retrieve the value. This is done through what we call a hash. A hash is the ability to encode the key that will eventually map to a specific location in the data structure that we can look at directly to retrieve the value.

## Structure

### Hashing

* Basically, a hash code turns a key into an integer. It’s very important that hash codes are deterministic: their output is determined only by their input. Hash codes should never have randomness to them. The same key should always produce the same hash code.

### Creating a Hash

* A hashtable traditionally is created from an array. I always like the size 1024. this is important for index placement. After you have created your array of the appropriate size, do some sort of logic to turn that “key” into a numeric number value. Here is a simplistic hashing algorithm:

*Add or multiply all the ASCII values together.
* Multiply it by a prime number such as 599.
* Use modulo to get the remainder of the result, when divided by the total * size of the array.
* Insert into the array at that index.

## Methods
set() :When adding a new key/value pair to a hashtable:


get() : The get() method takes in a key, gets the Hash, and goes to the index location specified. Once at the index location is found in the array,

has(): The has() method will accept a key, and return a bool on if that key exists inside the hashtable.

keys() :The keys() method returns a collection (array) of unique hash keys.

hash(): The hash() method will accept a key as a string, conduct the hash, and then return the index of the array where the key/value should be placed.