## Django Models

#### Overview

* Django web applications access and manage data through Python objects referred to as models. Models define the structure of stored data, including the field types and possibly also their maximum size, default values, selection list options, help text for documentation, label text for forms, etc. The definition of the model is independent of the underlying database — you can choose one of several as part of your project

### Model definition

* Models are usually defined in an application's models.py file. They are implemented as subclasses of django.db.models.Model, and can include fields, methods and metadata. The code fragment below shows a "typical" model, named MyModelName

from django.db import models
from django.urls import reverse

class MyModelName(models.Model):
    """A typical class defining a model, derived from the Model class."""

    # Fields
    my_field_name = models.CharField(max_length=20, help_text='Enter field documentation')
    # …

    # Metadata
    class Meta:
        ordering = ['-my_field_name']

    # Methods
    def get_absolute_url(self):
        """Returns the URL to access a particular instance of MyModelName."""
        return reverse('model-detail-view', args=[str(self.id)])

    def __str__(self):
        """String for representing the MyModelName object (in Admin site etc.)."""
        return self.my_field_name


### Fields
* A model can have an arbitrary number of fields, of any type — each one represents a column of data that we want to store in one of our database tables. Each database record (row) will consist of one of each field value. Let's look at the example seen below:

my_field_name = models.CharField(max_length=20, help_text='Enter field documentation')

## COMMON FIELD ARGUMENTS

 * help_text: Provides a text label for HTML forms
 * verbose_name: A human-readable name for the field used in field labels
 * default: The default value for the field. This can be a value or a callable object, 
 * null: If True, Django will store blank values as NULL in the database for fields where this is appropriate
 * blank: If True, the field is allowed to be blank in your forms. 

 ### COMMON FIELD TYPES

 * CharField is used to define short-to-mid sized fixed-length strings. 
 * TextField is used for large arbitrary-length strings. You may specify a max_length for the field, 
 * IntegerField is a field for storing integer (whole number) values,

 ## Methods
 * A model can also have methods.

Minimally, in every model you should define the standard Python class method __str__() to return a human-readable string for each object.

## Model management

* Once you've defined your model classes you can use them to create, update, or delete records, and to run queries to get all records or particular subsets of records. We'll show you how to do that in the tutorial when we define our views, but here is a brief summary.

## Genre model

* Copy the Genre model code shown below and paste it into the bottom of your models.py file. This model is used to store information about the book category — for example whether it is fiction or non-fiction, romance or military history, etc. As mentioned above, we've created the genre as a model rather than as free text or a selection list so that the possible values can be managed through the database rather than being hard coded. 

class Genre(models.Model):
    """Model representing a book genre."""
    name = models.CharField(max_length=200, help_text='Enter a book genre (e.g. Science Fiction)')

    def __str__(self):
        """String for representing the Model object."""
        return self.name


##### The Django admin application can use your models to automatically build a site area that you can use to create, view, update, and delete records. This can save you a lot of time during development, making it very easy to test your models and get a feel for whether you have the right data.

* Registering models

from django.contrib import admin
 Register your models here.

 #### Creating a superuser python3 manage.py createsuperuser

 ### Advanced configuration

 * Each model has a list of individual records, identified by the string created with the model's __str__() method, and linked to detail views/forms for editing. By default, this view has an action menu at the top that you can use to perform bulk delete operations on records.

 * The model detail record forms for editing and adding records contain all the fields in the model, laid out vertically in their declaration order.



