# Intro to OOP

## Classes and Objects

* Objects are an encapsulation of variables and functions into a single entity. Objects get their variables and functions from classes. Classes are essentially a template to create your objects.
* Classes are essentially a template to create your objects.

## init()

The __init__() function, is a special function that is called when the class is being initiated. It's used for assigning values in a class.

## Thinking Recursively

* A recursive function is a function defined in terms of itself via self-referential expressions.

This means that the function will continue to call itself and repeat its behavior until some condition is met to return a result. All recursive functions share a common structure made up of two parts: base case and recursive case.

1- Decompose the original problem into simpler instances of the same problem. This is the recursive case:

n! = n x (n−1) x (n−2) x (n−3) ⋅⋅⋅⋅ x 3 x 2 x 1
n! = n x (n−1)!

2 - As the large problem is broken down into successively less complex ones, those subproblems must eventually become so simple that they can be solved without further subdivision. This is the base case:

n! = n x (n−1)! 
n! = n x (n−1) x (n−2)!
n! = n x (n−1) x (n−2) x (n−3)!
⋅
⋅
n! = n x (n−1) x (n−2) x (n−3) ⋅⋅⋅⋅ x 3!
n! = n x (n−1) x (n−2) x (n−3) ⋅⋅⋅⋅ x 3 x 2!
n! = n x (n−1) x (n−2) x (n−3) ⋅⋅⋅⋅ x 3 x 2 x 1!

* Recursive Data Structures in Python: A data structure is recursive if it can be deﬁned in terms of a smaller version of itself. A list is an example of a recursive data structure.

## Pytest Fixtures and Coverage

* Fixtures: Fixtures are used to feed some data to the tests such as database connections, URLs to test and some sort of input data. Therefore, instead of running the same code for every test, we can attach fixture function to the tests and it will run and return the data to the test before executing each test

* Coverage: report for every part of the Python library that your program used, so I strongly suggest you provide an argument to --cov, specifying which program(s) you want to test. And, you should indicate the directory into which the report should be written.

* 