# Context API

## What is global state with React?

* In React, originally, the state is held and modified within the same React component. In most applications, different components may need to access and update the same state. This is achieved by introducing the global states in your app. The main purpose of the global state is to share a state among multiple components.

* State traveling down : State traveling down through the hierarchy is best managed using the mutable state at the highest level to determine immutable properties that define the lower-level components. Even when these properties are updated, the lower-level component is updated rather than fully recreated.

* State traveling up : You need to pass down a callback function for a higher-level component to know the state. In the following version, we add a global state to count the total number of button presses and update this state with a callback function called pushed, which is called whenever a button is pushed.

* State traveling sideways: Various sub-components need to communicate updates between them. This can be achieved by passing state, using callback, up to a common parent component, and then passing it back down.

## Context: Context provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down manually at every level.

### When to Use Context?

* Context is designed to share data that can be considered “global” for a tree of React components, such as the current authenticated user, theme, or preferred language. For example, in the code below we manually thread through a “theme” prop in order to style the Button component:

### Redux vs Context API: When to use them:

* The simplest way to pass data from a parent to a child in a React Application is by passing it on to the child's props. But an issue arises when a deeply nested child requires data from a component higher up in the tree. If we pass on the data through the props, every single one of the children would be required to accept the data and pass it on to its child, leading to prop drilling, a terrible practice in the world of React.

### What is the Context API?
* Context API is a built-in React tool that does not influence the final bundle size, and is integrated by design.

### What is Redux?

* Redux is an Open Source Library which provides a central store, and actions to modify the store. It can be used with any project using JavaScript or TypeScript, but since we are comparing it to Context API, so we will stick to React-based Applications.




