# Python Regular Expression Tutorial

* In Python, regular expressions are supported by the re module. That means that if you want to start using them in your Python scripts, you have to import this module with the help of import:
import re

#### Basic Patterns: Ordinary Characters
* Ordinary characters can be used to perform simple exact matches:
 pattern = r"Cookie"
sequence = "Cookie"
if re.match(pattern, sequence):
    print("Match!")
else: print("Not a match!")


* The match() function returns a match object if the text matches the 

## Wild Card Characters: Special Characters
* Special characters are characters that do not match themselves as seen but have a special meaning when used in a regular expression

re.search(r'Co.k.e', 'Cookie').group()
'Cookie'

* [abc] - Matches a or b or c.
[a-zA-Z0-9] - Matches any letter from (a to z) or (A to Z) or (0 to 9).

'5'


## Repetitions
* It becomes quite tedious if you are looking to find long patterns in a sequence. Fortunately, the re module handles repetitions using the following special characters:

+ - Checks if the preceding character appears one or more times starting from that position.

re.search(r'Co+kie', 'Cooookie').group()

'Cooookie'

* * - Checks if the preceding character appears zero or more times starting from that position.

### Checks for any occurrence of a or o or both in the given sequence
re.search(r'Ca*o*kie', 'Cookie').group()


### Grouping in Regular Expressions

The group feature of regular expression allows you to pick up parts of the matching text. Parts of a regular expression pattern bounded by parenthesis () are called groups. The parenthesis does not change what the expression matches, but rather forms groups within the matched sequence. You have been using the group() function all along in this tutorial's examples. The plain match.group() without any argument is still the whole matched text as usual.

statement = 'Please contact us at: support@datacamp.com'
match = re.search(r'([\w\.-]+)@([\w\.-]+)', statement)
if statement:
  print("Email address:", match.group()) # The whole matched text
  print("Username:", match.group(1)) # The username (group 1)
  print("Host:", match.group(2)) # The host (group 2)

Email address: support@datacamp.com
Username: support
Host: datacamp.com

#### Function Provided by 're'

* Regular expressions are handled as strings by Python. However, with compile(), you can computer a regular expression pattern into a regular expression object. When you need to use an expression several times in a single program, using compile() to save the resulting regular expression object for reuse is more efficient than saving it as a string. This is because the compiled versions of the most recent patterns passed to compile() and the module-level matching functions are cached.

pattern = re.compile(r"cookie")
sequence = "Cake and cookie"
pattern.search(sequence).group()

'cookie'


* start() - Returns the starting index of the match.
*end() - Returns the index where the match ends.
* span() - Return a tuple containing the (start, end) positions of the match.

pattern = re.compile('COOKIE', re.IGNORECASE)
match = pattern.search("I am not a cookie monster")

print("Start index:", match.start())
print("End index:", match.end())
print("Tuple:", match.span())

Start index: 11
End index: 17
Tuple: (11, 17)

### shutil — High-level File Operations

* The shutil module includes high-level file operations such as copying and archiving.
### Copying Files

import glob
import shutil

print('BEFORE:', glob.glob('shutil_copyfile.*'))

shutil.copyfile('shutil_copyfile.py', 'shutil_copyfile.py.copy')

print('AFTER:', glob.glob('shutil_copyfile.*'))

## Copying File Metadata
By default when a new file is created under Unix, it receives permissions based on the umask of the current user. To copy the permissions from one file to another, use copymode().

import os
import shutil
import subprocess

with open('file_to_change.txt', 'wt') as f:
    f.write('content')
os.chmod('file_to_change.txt', 0o444)

print('BEFORE:', oct(os.stat('file_to_change.txt').st_mode))

shutil.copymode('shutil_copymode.py', 'file_to_change.txt')

print('AFTER :', oct(os.stat('file_to_change.txt').st_mode))

