## API Deployment

## Managing Django Settings: Issues

* Different environments. Usually, you have several environments: local, dev, ci, qa, staging, production, etc. Each environment can have its own specific settings

* sensitive data. You have SECRET_KEY in each Django project. On top of this there can be DB passwords and tokens for third-party APIs like Amazon or Twitter. This data cannot be stored in VCS.

* Sharing settings between team members. You need a general approach to eliminate human error when working with the settings.

* Django settings are a Python code. This is a curse and a blessing at the same time. It gives you a lot of flexibility
* Sharing settings between team members.

### settings_local.py

The basic idea of this method is to extend all environment-specific settings in the settings_local.py file, which is ignored by VCS. Here’s an example:

settings.py file:

ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['example.com']
DEBUG = False
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
        'NAME': 'production_db',
        'USER': 'user',
        'PASSWORD': 'password',
        'HOST': 'db.example.com',
        'PORT': '5432',
        'OPTIONS': {
            'sslmode': 'require'
        }
    }
}

...

from .settings_local import *



### Separate settings file for each environment

* This is an extension of the previous approach. It allows you to keep all configurations in VCS and to share default settings between developers.

In this case, there are multiple files from which projects on Django get settings, and you make a settings package with the following file structure:

from .base import *


ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['localhost']
DEBUG = True
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
        'NAME': 'local_db',
        'HOST': '127.0.0.1',
        'PORT': '5432',
    }
}

* Pros:
All environments are in VCS.
It’s easy to share settings between developers.
* Cons:
You need to find a way to handle secret passwords and tokens.
“Inheritance” of settings can be hard to trace and maintain.

## 12 Factors
* 12 Factors is a collection of recommendations on how to build distributed web-apps that will be easy to deploy and scale in the Cloud. It was created by Heroku, a well-known Cloud hosting provider.

#### the collection consists of twelve parts:

* Codebase
*Dependencies
* Config
* Backing services
* Build, release, run
* Processes
* Port binding
* Concurrency
* Disposability
* Dev/prod parity
* Logs
* Admin processes

### django-environ

* Based on the above, we see that Django env variables are the perfect place to store settings.

Now it’s time to talk about the toolkit.

## Technically it’s a merge of:

* envparse
* honcho
* dj-database-url
* dj-search-url
* dj-config-url
* django-cache-url

### Naming Conventions

* Naming of variables is one of the most complex parts of development. So is naming of settings. We can’t imply on Django or third-party applications, but we can follow these simple rules for our custom (project) settings:

* Give meaningful names to your settings.
* Always use the prefix with the project name for your custom (project) settings.
* Write descriptions for your settings in comments.

### Django Settings: Best practices

* Keep settings in environment variables.
* Write default values for production configuration (excluding secret keys and tokens).
* Don’t hardcode sensitive settings, and don’t put them in VCS.
* Split settings into groups: Django, third-party, project.
* Follow naming conventions for custom (project) settings.